blog: secret sync controller alpha blog post (#45538)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-05-01-secret-sync-controller-alpha.md

## What is the motivation for this feature?

Many production-scale Kubernetes solutions use secrets stored in an external secret store such as a cloud provider secret management system. These solutions face the same problem: securely accessing those secrets within a Kubernetes cluster. Leveraging a secret store CSI driver allows access to secrets while a cluster is online; however, until now, the secret store CSI Driver has yet to provide a unified solution for access to external secrets while offline. The Secret Sync Controller provides a unified way of pulling secrets from a cloud provider and storing them in the Kubernetes secret store for offline/intermittent access.

## What is the benefit?

1. Offline Access: Many clusters running in production environments need to be resilient to intermittent connectivity. This includes continuing to have access to secrets when a cluster goes offline and a pod restarts. Workloads can continue to access secrets by storing secrets in the Kubernetes secret store instead of a directly mounted volume (which is how the existing secret store CSI driver enables accessing secrets).

> 2. Standard Kubernetes Secret Access: Secrets can be accessed via volume mounting, environment variables, or via the Kubernetes API. Workloads and ingress controllers do not need to be customized to access a cloud provider secret store and developers have options on how to access secrets.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Standard Kubernetes Secret Access: Secrets can be accessed via volume mounting, environment variables, or via the Kubernetes API. Workloads and ingress controllers do not need to be customized to access a cloud provider's secret store and developers have options on how to access secrets.  
```

3. Security: The Secret Sync Controller (SSC) has limited permissions and leverages the latest Kubernetes security features (complete list below) so that cluster admins do not need to configure and restrict permissions themselves.  

## How to use the Secret Sync Controller

The Secret Sync Controller (SSC) must be used alongside a [secret store Cloud Provider](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/getting-started/installation.html#install-external-secret-providers) that implements the Secret Store CSI Driver provider interface to provide an end-to-end solution for synchronizing secrets from the cloud secret store to the Kubernetes secret store.  

> 1. Install the [secret sync controller](https://gist.github.com/aramase/46bd3d4270d9c44b59e8c2afe56fbc09) via a Helm chart, or YAML manifests alongside a secret store provider. If using the helm chart, users can configure parameters such as sync intervals and resource limitations at install time.

Reviewer 2: Is there a more official installation reference other than a personal gist?

Reviewer 3: We'd definitely prefer to link to something from the Kubernetes project than from a single contributor.

Reviewer 4: The installation is currently in a gif because the work is in a PR and it's pre-alpha. We're in the process of moving the code to https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-sync-controller and cutting the alpha release in the next few months. 

Would it still be fine referencing the gist given the above?

2. Configure an identity with permission to read the cloud provider's secrets.  

3. Configure the cloud provider with a secret provider class CustomResourceDefinition (CRD).  

> 4. Configure the Secret Sync Controller with a secret sync CRD that contains the associated cloud provider CRD, name of the secret in the cluster, target namespace, and the Kubernetes service account that has federated identity access to the Cloud Provider secret.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Configure the Secret Sync Controller with a secret sync CRD that contains the associated cloud provider CRD, the name of the secret in the cluster, the target namespace, and the Kubernetes service account that has federated identity access to the Cloud Provider secret.  
```

5. Apply the CRDs in the cluster and secrets will automatically begin syncing.  

## Security features

By default, the Secret Sync Controller (SSC) enables the following security features:

1. Isolation of Functionality: The SSC splits out the functionality of syncing secrets from a cloud provider (via a secret sync Provider) and storing the secrets in a cluster (the SSC). Each component can have much more limited permissions, minimizing the risk of a cluster compromise.  

> 2. Limited Permissions via ValidatingAdmissionPolicies: The SSC is a privileged facility that should be in a protected namespace, such as `kube-system`. The SSC leverages ValidatingAdmissionPolicies to limit its capabilities, ensuring it cannot perform operations such as deleting Secrets, or editing Secrets beyond its designated scope (defined via labels and annotations). Validating admission policies will be generally available and enabled by default starting with Kubernetes 1.30; right now, they are beta and opt-in.

Reviewer 2: Now that 1.30 is out, this should probably be rephrased from "policies will be" to something like:

```suggestion
2. Limited Permissions via ValidatingAdmissionPolicies: The SSC is a privileged facility that should be in a protected namespace, such as `kube-system`. The SSC leverages ValidatingAdmissionPolicies to limit its capabilities, ensuring it cannot perform operations such as deleting Secrets, or editing Secrets beyond its designated scope (defined via labels and annotations). Validating admission policies are generally available and enabled by default starting with Kubernetes 1.30. For releases prior to 1.30 they are beta and opt-in.
```
May also be useful to link to the docs showing how to enable beta functionality.

> 2. Limited Permissions via ValidatingAdmissionPolicies: The SSC is a privileged facility that should be in a protected namespace, such as `kube-system`. The SSC leverages ValidatingAdmissionPolicies to limit its capabilities, ensuring it cannot perform operations such as deleting Secrets, or editing Secrets beyond its designated scope (defined via labels and annotations). Validating admission policies will be generally available and enabled by default starting with Kubernetes 1.30; right now, they are beta and opt-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Limited Permissions via ValidatingAdmissionPolicies: The SSC is a privileged facility that should be in a protected namespace, such as `kube-system`. The SSC leverages ValidatingAdmissionPolicies to limit its capabilities, ensuring it cannot perform operations such as deleting Secrets or editing Secrets beyond its designated scope (defined via labels and annotations). Validating admission policies will be generally available and enabled by default starting with Kubernetes 1.30; right now, they are beta and opt-in.
```

> 2. Limited Permissions via ValidatingAdmissionPolicies: The SSC is a privileged facility that should be in a protected namespace, such as `kube-system`. The SSC leverages ValidatingAdmissionPolicies to limit its capabilities, ensuring it cannot perform operations such as deleting Secrets, or editing Secrets beyond its designated scope (defined via labels and annotations). Validating admission policies will be generally available and enabled by default starting with Kubernetes 1.30; right now, they are beta and opt-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Limited Permissions via ValidatingAdmissionPolicies: The SSC is a privileged facility that should be in a protected namespace, such as `kube-system`. The SSC leverages ValidatingAdmissionPolicies to limit its capabilities, ensuring it cannot perform operations such as deleting Secrets or editing Secrets beyond its designated scope (defined via labels and annotations). Validating admission policies will be generally available and enabled by default starting with Kubernetes 1.30; right now, they are beta and opt-in.
```

If these features are strictly sequential or i'm planning to reference them later on easily, i would keep the number as it is. Otherwise I would use bullets to list the security features for visual simplicity.

> 3. Cloud Provider vs Workload Configuration: Configuration of the secrets to be synced to the cluster are split into two layers – the cloud provider configuration and the workload specific configuration. This allows a cloud provider admin to create and define the cloud provider secret storage and cloud identity that has access to secrets. The workload developer can then define how the secret is stored in the cluster (name, namespace, etc) and which local Kubernetes identity has access to the secret.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Cloud Provider vs Workload Configuration: Configuration of the secrets to be synced to the cluster is split into two layers – the cloud provider configuration and the workload specific configuration. This allows a cloud provider admin to create and define the cloud provider's secret storage and cloud identity that has access to secrets. The workload developer can then define how the secret is stored in the cluster (name, namespace, etc) and which local Kubernetes identity has access to the secret.  
```

4. Namespace Boundaries: The SSC leverages the Kubernetes namespace security boundary to isolate Secrets so that only Pods in a namespace have access to Secrets in that namespace.

> 5. Federated Identity for Syncing Secrets: The SSC does not have its own global identity for accessing secrets. Instead, at deployment time, the admin configures a unique local identity (ServiceAccount) for each workload that uses secrets, and can federate this with a unique cloud identity that has access to the Secrets it requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Federated Identity for Syncing Secrets: The SSC does not have its own global identity for accessing secrets. Instead, at deployment time, the admin configures a unique local identity (ServiceAccount) for each workload that uses secrets and can federate this with a unique cloud identity that has access to the Secrets it requires.
```

In addition to the previous on by default security features, a cluster admin should enable the following security features:

> 6. Owner Reference Permission Enforcement: The SSC permissions can be further limited by enabling the _Owner Reference Permission Enforcement_ admission controller, which ensures that only the owners of a Secret have permissions to update and delete the Secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Owner Reference Permission Enforcement: The SSC permissions can be further limited by enabling the _Owner Reference Permission Enforcement_ admission controller, which ensures that only the Secret's owners have permission to update and delete it.

```

7. Encryption: Kubernetes secrets are stored encoded in etcd, and the secret storage [should be encrypted](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/). For example, a cluster admin should enable a KMS plugin for the cluster to encrypt secret data.  

> ## What’s next?

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: how can readers contribute to this? Submitting pull requests? Reporting issues? Or participating in discussions?

Reviewer 5: It might also be useful to expand on tentative timelines to set community expectations.

> The SIG Auth and Secret Store CSI maintainers plan move the Secret Sync Controller to a dedicated repository in the near future. Depending on feedback and adoption, the project would then graduate to a beta stage later in 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SIG Auth and Secret Store CSI maintainers plan to move the Secret Sync Controller to a dedicated repository in the near future. Depending on feedback and adoption, the project would then graduate to a beta stage later in 2024.
```

> ## How can I get involved?

Reviewer 5: Please consider adding a small call-to-action earlier in the post to encourage reader engagement. The last part of the article asks people to get involved, but mentioning it earlier could keep readers interested throughout the article.

> This feature is driven by the [Kubernetes SIG Auth community](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-auth). Please try out the [Secret Sync Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver/tree/feature/secrets-sync-controller) and join us to connect with the [community](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/csi-secrets-store) and share your ideas and feedback around the above feature and beyond. We look forward to hearing from you!  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is driven by the [Kubernetes SIG Auth community](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-auth). Please try out the [Secret Sync Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver/tree/feature/secrets-sync-controller) and join us to connect with the [community](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/csi-secrets-store) and share your ideas and feedback about the above feature and beyond. We look forward to hearing from you!  
```
